{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\info
{\author Thuda Madhavan, Jeyabalaji (Cognizant)}
{\*\company Cognizant Technologies Limited}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12600\viewh10200\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Hi All,\
We created UIFormattedTextField as a component. I would like to give the conversation between me and the Architect during the development here.\
The Architect of our project always encourages the team to develop reusable components and use that in the project.\
Current project requirement is to get the amount as input from the user.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b \cf0 Demo1:
\b0 \uc0\u8232 So i started working on it. I created a normal textfield which accepts both number and character. But while submitting the form it gives an error, "Please enter only number". I demoed it.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://c2blogimages.cognizant.com/blogs/126881/9/files/2013/06/demo1.png"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf0 }}\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 Architect: Hey we are developing this for mobile device. The current implementation will annoy the user. So modify the text field, which accepts only number instead of giving the error at last.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b \cf0 Demo2:
\b0 \uc0\u8232 The real development, googling, coding everything starts here. Changed the text field to accept only numbers and dot and it will format the number by putting commas.\u8232 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://c2blogimages.cognizant.com/blogs/126881/9/files/2013/06/demo2.png"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 }}\uc0\u8232 Architect: Good work man. This is a currency field right. why can't we put a currency symbol?\u8232 Me: we can place a label before the text field and put the symbol, simply we can hard code and finish it off.\
Architect: Then its not dynamic. Put the symbol in the text Field itself. Also make it localized. So when i change the device location to India it should show Rupee symbol and format the number according to Indian format.\
My mind voice: super. Google will help me.\

\b Demo3:
\b0 \uc0\u8232 Done all the comments given in demo2. So now the text field will format and show the currency symbol according to current location.\
For India: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://c2blogimages.cognizant.com/blogs/126881/9/files/2013/06/demo3_1.png"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 }}\
For US:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://c2blogimages.cognizant.com/blogs/126881/9/files/2013/06/demo3_2.png"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 }}\uc0\u8232 Architect: Super. Its looking good. So why can't we make it as a component. So i can set the type of the text filed as Currency, Number, PhoneNumber, SSN etc and text field should behave according to the given type.\u8232 Me: ya we can.\

\b Demo4:
\b0 \uc0\u8232 Everything done. Now we can set the type of the text field.\
Architect: ya good. ok now we can start using this. Circulate this to all our team members.\
Me: Ya sure. But while working on this, i got an idea, instead of giving the type separately, like PhoneNumber, SSN etc. i will remove all these types and give an option dynamic. So you can set the type "Dynamic" and define your own pattern in the format xxx-xxx-xxxx (for US Phone number), xxx-xx-xxxx (for SSN) so we can avoid lot of options.\
Architect: That is also good option. Do that and distribute across team.\
Everything done. Now the text field accept the types,\uc0\u8232 1. Currency\u8232 2. Number\u8232 3. FormattedNumber\u8232 4. Percentage\u8232 5. Dynamic\u8232 If you look at the code, you can see some other types too which is used before the introduction of Dynamic. Now you can achieve the same using Dynamic and FomatPattern.\
After this entire development, i learned how to think and design before actually start our coding.\

\b How to use the component in your project:
\b0 \
1. Drag and drop the "UIFormattedTextField.h" and "UIFormattedTextField.m" files to your project.\
2. Import the header in your class, where do you want to use it.\
#import "UIFormattedTextField.h"\
3. If you are using xib or storyboard, change the class of the text field in the "Identity inspector" to UIFormattedTextField.\
4. Create an instance variable to access the text field.\
IBOutlet UIFormattedTextField *currency;\
5. Set the type and delegate of the text field. Don't forget to import the delegate <UITextFieldDelegate>\
currency.type = @"Currency"; 	currency.delegate = self;	currency.numberOfDecimalPlaces = 3;\
6. You have to change the delegate function ,\uc0\u8232 -(BOOL)textField:(UITextField *)textField shouldChangeCharactersInRange:(NSRange)range replacementString:(NSString *)string\u8232 \{\u8232 return YES;\u8232 \}\
to\
-(BOOL)textField:(UIFormattedTextField *)textField shouldChangeCharactersInRange:(NSRange)range replacementString:(NSString *)string\uc0\u8232 \{\u8232 return [textField shouldChangeCharactersInRange:range replacementString:string];\u8232 \}\
7. You are done. \
You can download the sample project from here.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f1 \cf0 
\f0 \
}